We welcome the release.
We share in the relief
that their families,
friends and loved ones are feeli
But there are still ten
additional Americans
who remain unaccounted for
in this conflict.
We know that
some of them are being held
hostage by Hamas,
along with an estimated 200
other hostages
held in Gaza.
They include men, women,
young boys, young girls,
elderly people
from many nations.
Every single one of them
should be released
since the early,
early start of this crisis.
The president has made clear
that he will do everything possi
to secure the release of every h
During my own recent travel
to the region,
I emphasized the urgency
and importance of this
to the United States
and pressed our partners
to do everything they can
to help us secure the release.
Since that time, we
continue to work
relentlessly with partners
to do just that.
I can't speak publicly
about the details of these effor
and I know you understand that.
But the urgent work to free
every single American, to free
all other hostages continues,
as does our work
to secure the safe passage out o
for the Americans who are trappe
In this particular instance,
I want to thank the government o
for their very important assista
When I was in Israel last week,
I met with the families of U.S.
citizens that Hamas has taken ho
President Biden,
too, had the opportunity
to hear directly from the famili
Its impossible
to adequately put into words the
their feeling
of not knowing
the fate of their loved ones,
wearing relentlessly
about them
for their safety,
for their security, for their we
No family anywhere
should have to experience this t
What I share with the families,
as the president did as well,
is that
the entire United States
government will work every minut
of every day to secure their rel
to bring their loved ones home.
They have my solemn pledge
those who continue to have loved
held hostage by Hamas
that will continue to do that.
Working.
As though these family members
were our own.
With that and having a few quest
Mr. Secretary.
So thanks for coming down, Mr.
Smith. Mr. Secretary,
I'm just.
You said you wouldn't
talk about specific details,
but I'm wondering,
you did thank the government of
and I'm wondering, since you wer
and they
have an
office, they host the Hamas offi
If you could elaborate a little
on what their role was
and if you continue to think tha
that channel
there, them having an office the
is worthwhile.
And then secondly,
a lot has been made by you,
by the president,
by other officials about
how it is important for Israel o
if and when it begins a ground i
into Gaza for it
to respect the
rules of war internationally.
And I'm curious if you think tha
even before
that ground incursion has starte
if Israel is respecting those
rules and laws.
Thank you.
Matt, thanks for the questions.
You'll understand that
because this is an ongoing effor
an ongoing effort to get
Americans who are hostage in thi
in Gaza
out to secure their release,
to get them back with their fami
I really can't go into any detai
what we're doing, how we're doin
And all
I can say with regard to Qatar
is in this instance,
we very much appreciate their as
Beyond that, I really can't
I really can't say
because, again,
we want to focus on making sure
that we're getting those
who remain hostage back home
and with their loved ones.
That's the single most important
with regard to
how Israel is conducting its ope
I think you've heard the preside
speak to this very clearly.
You've heard me
We've said
we believe strongly
that Israel has not only the rig
but the obligation
to defend itself against what it
it's very hard to put in the wor
the nature, the barbarity of the
And they really do have the obli
to defend themselves
against it,
to do whatever
they can to try to make sure
that this doesn't happen again.
But we've been very clear as wel
that the way Israel does this ma
And in particular,
it's important
that operations be conducted
in accordance
with international law, humanita
the law of war as applicable,
and that everything be done
to minimize the loss of civilian
And we continue to focus on that
just as we're also focusing
on getting assistance
into people in Gaza who who need
There will be
plenty of time to make assessmen
about how
these operations were conducted.
But I can just say for
the part of the United States
that this continues to be
important to us.
And again, it's what
distinguishes us, distinguishes
from terrorist groups like Hamas
which not only have
absolutely no concern for
for innocent human life.
They intentionally use
innocent human lives to hide beh
to use as quite literally
as human shields, knowing that c
invariably are going to suffer i
in conflict.
Thank you, Secretary.
Just following up on that, a Ham
has issued a statement
through Abu Zubaydah.
And I know with the huge caveat
that it's a terror group
and one is not attach
credibility to that.
But they have said
that all the hostages, the civil
hostage,
which include the Americans,
could be released,
that this could be
the start of something bigger
if there are no airstrikes.
Would this be a moment where
if it's under Israel's
discretion, obviously
it would be wise to pause,
to give it more time
to see if this is a moment
since the ground invasion is not
Should even the airstrikes be st
To see if you could get more peo
And it was notable,
without going into details
that in the president's statemen
he said
he expressed his thanks to Israe
to Qatar, rather,
in partnership with Israel.
A notable connection there.
The obvious inference
is that they were working
together on this.
Does this give you hope that
despite everything that's happen
that there could still be
a broader relationship
and avoid a wider war?
Thanks, Andrea.
So two things there.
First,
it's very simple.
Hostages should be released imme
and unconditionally.
That's been our position from da
It remains our position.
And to your point,
I would not take anything
that Hamas says at face value.
I'm not sure anyone in this room
would take at face value or repo
something that ISIS had said.
Same applies to to Hamas.
Our position is clear.
Every hostage needs to be releas
and needs to be released.
Now,
there is no doubt
from my own my own travels in th
that one of the important things
throughout this
this very difficult period
and since the attack,
the unconscionable attack by Ham
is
to continue
to find ways
for countries to cooperate, coor
when it's in their interests to
And we'll continue to look to th
Any cooperation that that we can
that facilitates the release of
any cooperation that we can elic
That secures the provision
of humanitarian assistance
to the men, women and children i
who would so desperately need it
We work on that every day.
And I think
we can say that
we've seen some of that cooperat
The broader question,
though, I think, is
usually important,
because what's abundantly clear
the vast majority of countries,
the vast majority of people
want the same thing
They want a region
where countries are working toge
where relations are normalized,
where there's greater integratio
where people are
working together,
studying together,
traveling, doing business.
Overwhelming
majority of people want that.
And we want to see as well
the rights and aspirations
of the Palestinian people
fulfilled in the context of that
of region.
And that's one vision.
And it remains very much
alive in every conversation. Tha
The alternative is equally clear
and it's very stark.
It's Hamas.
It's Hezbollah.
It's Iran.
It's destruction.
It's death.
It's terrorism. It's darkness.
So the more we are able to make
that first vision
the more I'm convinced that
that's the vision that everyone
or virtually everyone will subsc
So even as we are
working through this challenge,
this crisis, it's important
to keep that vision alive,
because it's important that peop
that there is an alternative
and that everything that they ho
and that they aspire to
is going to be best addressed
through what I've just described
that first vision.
We'll continue to do that.
Jennifer, Mr.
Secretary,
what can you tell us
about the condition
of these two Americans
who have been released?
What is their their health statu
And do you have any details
on the condition of the American
who are being held hostage
Have you seen any proof of life
And then on the Rafah crossing,
what is the holdup
in operationalizing this deal?
And will we see it open this wee
I can't speak
to the condition of the two host
who were just released.
First, out of respect for their
Second,
because we haven't had a chance
Maybe it's happening as we speak
To get our own team in there to
to see them, to
to evaluate them and most import
to reunite them with their loved
So I'm sure that will
that that'll come out in the
in the hours, certainly days ahe
But I don't have anything for yo
on that now,
nor do I have anything for you o
the status of or condition of Am
who continue to be held by by Ha
with regard to the to the Rafah
As you know, when
some of us were traveling togeth
in the region over the past week
getting assistance moving
was among my top priorities.
And we worked very hard
with the government of Israel,
the government of Egypt to do ju
And we secured an understanding
we would develop a plan
to move assistance.
That understanding was cemented
by President Biden
when he was in Israel
and also speaking to President
el-Sisi of Egypt.
In the time since we've been wor
relentlessly with Ambassador Dav
Satterfield on the ground,
working with the United Nations,
with Egypt, with Israel
to put that into motion.
And my expectation
is that you'll see that moving s